

<span style="font-family: 'Times', serif">

## <span style="font-family: 'Times', serif; font-size: 32px;"> Introduction </span>


### <span style="font-family: 'Times', serif; font-size: 24px;"><u> Motivation </u></span>
> <span style="font-size: 20px;"> Acquiring and analysing multiple omics data has become increasingly common practice, even in laboratories lacking a strong bioinformatics background. These multidimensional datasets contain a wealth of valuable information; however, much of it remains underutilised due to a lack of expertise in computational analysis. In many instances, once the data has been collected and researchers have confirmed the downstream influence of their primary focus, the dataset is stored away and seldom revisited. Furthermore, as more data is generated from various types of experiments, managing previously acquired datasets becomes ever more tedious. Although some software and user-friendly online tools are available for data analysis or visualisation, these are typically designed for handling a limited number of datasets. If you have 100 datasets, it is not realistic to manually load each dataset into the software every time you need to examine the data. Such an approach quickly becomes impractical as the volume of data grows, leading to inefficiencies in more profound analysis. Therefore, when researchers accumulate large and diverse datasets, existing tools often lack the flexibility and integration capabilities to exploit the available information fully.  </span><br>
> 
> <span style="font-size: 20px;"> This represents a missed opportunity, as valuable biological insights could be extracted if data were approached from multiple perspectives. Researchers can uncover novel connections by integrating different datasets from different layers of omics, leading to new hypotheses and a deeper understanding of biological mechanisms. Functionally or clinically significant genes may become more apparent when multiple data layers are considered together rather than analysed in isolation. Without accessible tools, such integration can be challenging for researchers who rack programming or bioinformatics expertise. </span>
>
> 
> <span style="font-size: 20px;"> To address this, we are developing a graphical user interface that allows users to integrate diverse datasets visually and intuitively. Our interface facilitates data analysis and functions as a database, making it easier for researchers to manage and organise their data efficiently. </span>

#### <span style="font-family: 'Times', serif; font-size: 24px;"><u> What can the interface do? How is it useful? </u></span>
> <span style="font-size: 20px;"> One of the core functions of our interface is the ability to create custom gene sets and apply them to other datasets. These custom gene sets can be derived from various sources, such as clinical data, functional screenings, or previous research findings. This allows users to see how the genes they consider important in one experiment behave in others, enabling integration beyond different omics layers. Researchers can efficiently narrow down which genes are functionally or clinically significant by comparing results across datasets. Another powerful feature is the ability to simultaneously compare numerical scores, such as log fold changes, across multiple datasets. Researchers can identify genes that frequently emerge as hits across datasets, helping them determine whether a particular effect is experiment-specific or commonly observed under different conditions. This type of within-omics analysis provides critical insights into the consistency and reproducibility of experimental findings. Furthermore, the interface offers clinical relevance analysis, allowing users to assess the clinical impact of their genes of interest easily. Researchers can quickly identify which genes exert the most decisive influence in a given patient cohort, as well as determine which genes are associated with patients who responded well or poorly to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) or other treatments. </span>

#### <span style="font-family: 'Times', serif; font-size: 24px;"><u> Side benefit </u></span>
> <span style="font-size: 20px;"> As a side benefit, the interface serves as a centralised database, allowing researchers to store all their data in one place for easy, stress-free access. It also supports interactive visualisation, where users can flexibly adjust filtering thresholds and colours to explore data as they wish. Furthermore, researchers can perform quick downstream analyses, such as GO analysis or GSEA, without requiring bioinformatics expertise, streamlining the analytical workflow. By integrating these features, our tool helps researchers efficiently pinpoint key genes and develop new hypotheses. </span>
> 
> <span style="font-size: 20px;"> By leveraging these functionalities, the interface empowers users to pinpoint clinically relevant or functionally important genes, facilitating the development of new hypotheses and advancing biological and medical research. By simplifying data integration, management, and visualisation, our tool ensures that valuable datasets are not merely stored away but actively utilised to generate meaningful scientific discoveries. </span>


</span>